README.md, before:

# Stratos

<a href="https://travis-ci.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branches"><img src="https://travis-ci.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos.svg?branch=master"></a>&nbsp;<a style="padding-left: 4px" href="https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/maintainability"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/61af8b605f385e894632/maintainability" /></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/stratos"/></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branch/master"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/cloudfoundry-community/stratos.svg)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![slack.cloudfoundry.org](https://slack.cloudfoundry.org/badge.svg)](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/C80EP4Y57/)

Stratos is an Open Source Web-based UI (Console) for managing Cloud Foundry. It allows users and administrators to both manage applications running in the Cloud Foundry cluster and perform cluster management tasks.

![Stratos Application view](website/static/images/screenshots/app-summary.png)

Please visit our new [documentation site](https://stratos.app/). There you can discover

1. Our [introduction](https://stratos.app/docs/), including quick start, contributing and troubleshooting guides.
1. How to [deploy](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/overview) Stratos in a number of environments.
    1. [Cloud Foundry](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/cloud-foundry/cloud-foundry), as an application.
    1. [Kubernetes](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/kubernetes), using a Helm chart.
    1. [Docker](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/all-in-one), as a single container deploying all components.
1. Configuring advanced features such a [Single Sign On](https://stratos.app/docs/advanced/sso) and Cloud Foundry '[invite to org](https://stratos.app/docs/advanced/invite-user-guide)'.
1. Guides for [developers](https://stratos.app/docs/developer/introduction).
1. How to [extend](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/introduction) Stratos [functionality](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/frontend) and apply a custom [theme](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/theming).


## Acknowledgements

Tested with Browserstack

<a href="https://www.browserstack.com"><img width="240px" src="website/static/images/Browserstack-logo.svg" alt="Browserstack"></a>

# Stratos UI pre-packager

This feature helps in pre-building the
[Stratos](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos) web application
so that it can be deployed faster in Cloud Foundry, or be run offline.

You can find pre-built versions of Stratos UI in the
[releases](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases)
of this repository.

To run those `.zip` packages inside Cloud Foundry, unzip it, write a manifest,
and `cf push` it.

You are not required to have
[stratos-buildpack](https://github.com/SUSE/stratos-buildpack), you can use
binary buildpack.

Here is an example app manifest that worked for us:
```yaml
applications:
  - name: console
    memory: 128M
    disk_quota: 192M
    host: console
    timeout: 180
    buildpack: binary_buildpack
    health-check-type: port
```

For best results rather than pushing manually instead use within the (Genesis CF Kit)[https://github.com/genesis-community/cf-genesis-kit] like so:
```
genesis <env-name> do stratos sgs
```
Note: `sgs` creates security groups the first time, upgrades do not use `sgs`.

## Usage

Golang is required, and version 1.12 is recommended as this is the version used
by the Stratos build system.

When you want to build the `4.1.2` tag in
[Stratos UI releases](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases),
run this command:

```
TRAVIS_TAG=4.1.2 ./package.sh
```

### NOTE
The original code for this feature can be found in the [Orange Cloud foundry Github Repository](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/stratos-ui-cf-packager/). 
Many thanks to Benjamin & Arthur, we appreciate you both!

## License

The work done has been re-licensed under MIT License. The license file can be found [here](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Pulled in release packaging scripting.

README.md, after:

# Stratos

<a href="https://travis-ci.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branches"><img src="https://travis-ci.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos.svg?branch=master"></a>&nbsp;<a style="padding-left: 4px" href="https://codeclimate.com/github/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/maintainability"><img src="https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/61af8b605f385e894632/maintainability" /></a>
<a href="https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos"><img src="https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/cloudfoundry-incubator/stratos"/></a>
<a href="https://codecov.io/gh/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branch/master"><img src="https://codecov.io/gh/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/branch/master/graph/badge.svg"/></a>
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/cloudfoundry-community/stratos.svg)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg)](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/blob/master/LICENSE)
[![slack.cloudfoundry.org](https://slack.cloudfoundry.org/badge.svg)](https://cloudfoundry.slack.com/messages/C80EP4Y57/)

Stratos is an Open Source Web-based UI (Console) for managing Cloud Foundry. It allows users and administrators to both manage applications running in the Cloud Foundry cluster and perform cluster management tasks.

![Stratos Application view](website/static/images/screenshots/app-summary.png)

Please visit our new [documentation site](https://stratos.app/). There you can discover

1. Our [introduction](https://stratos.app/docs/), including quick start, contributing and troubleshooting guides.
1. How to [deploy](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/overview) Stratos in a number of environments.
    1. [Cloud Foundry](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/cloud-foundry/cloud-foundry), as an application.
    1. [Kubernetes](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/kubernetes), using a Helm chart.
    1. [Docker](https://stratos.app/docs/deploy/all-in-one), as a single container deploying all components.
1. Configuring advanced features such a [Single Sign On](https://stratos.app/docs/advanced/sso) and Cloud Foundry '[invite to org](https://stratos.app/docs/advanced/invite-user-guide)'.
1. Guides for [developers](https://stratos.app/docs/developer/introduction).
1. How to [extend](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/introduction) Stratos [functionality](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/frontend) and apply a custom [theme](https://stratos.app/docs/extensions/theming).


## Acknowledgements

Tested with Browserstack

<a href="https://www.browserstack.com"><img width="240px" src="website/static/images/Browserstack-logo.svg" alt="Browserstack"></a>

# Stratos UI pre-packager


This feature helps in pre-building the
[Stratos](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos) web application
so that it can be deployed faster in Cloud Foundry, or be run offline.

You can find pre-built versions of Stratos UI in the
[releases](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases)
of this repository.

To run those `.zip` packages inside Cloud Foundry, unzip it, write a manifest,
and `cf push` it.

You are not required to have
[stratos-buildpack](https://github.com/SUSE/stratos-buildpack), you can use
binary buildpack.

Here is an example app manifest that worked for us:
```yaml
applications:
  - name: console
    memory: 128M
    disk_quota: 192M
    host: console
    timeout: 180
    buildpack: binary_buildpack
    health-check-type: port
```

For best results rather than pushing manually instead use within the (Genesis CF Kit)[https://github.com/genesis-community/cf-genesis-kit] like so:
```
genesis <env-name> do stratos sgs
```
Note: `sgs` creates security groups the first time, upgrades do not use `sgs`.

## Packaging

Golang is required, and version 1.12 is recommended as this is the version used by the Stratos build system.

When you want to build the `4.1.2` tag in
[Stratos UI releases](https://github.com/cloudfoundry-community/stratos/releases),
run this command:

```bash
./bin/package
```
OR to package a specific tag
```bash
TAG="4.1.2" ./bin/package 
```

### NOTE
The original code for this feature can be found in the
[Orange Cloud foundry Github Repository](https://github.com/orange-cloudfoundry/stratos-ui-cf-packager/). 
Many thanks to Benjamin & Arthur, we appreciate you both!

## License

The work done has been re-licensed under MIT License. The license file can be found [here](LICENSE).
